


There is a program in the sio2k distribution zip named logger.exe.  This
program is intended to provide information and logging services after boot
time.  This program can generate an enormous amount of text, so you
probably want to use logger.exe during debugging only.  The logging process
also takes processor time and may interfere with high speed communications.

A simple way to see logger.exe in action is to go to an OS/2 command prompt
and execute "LOGGER COM1" without the quote marks.  It will just sit there
(for now) so do not be concerned.  Then go the another OS/2 command prompt
and execute MODE COM1.

The basic way to execute logger is to type LOGGER COM1 at an OS/2 command
line prompt.  If you want the logging information placed into a disk file
then execute LOGGER COMn x:\path\FILENAME.LOG.  In this case the
information is both displayed and placed into the file FILENAME.LOG.  Note,
DO NOT use names like com1.log, as OS/2, and especially dos/win sessions
become confused when a file name is the same as a device name.  Use a name
like LOGCOM1.LOG so the system does not get confused.

I coded logger.exe to be re-entrant, but have not tested it.  If the re-
entrant code works, you can have multiple copies of logger.exe running to
monitor multiple ports at the same time.

There is some information available to logger only once, when a comm port
is opened the first time.  Catching the information before the port is
opened the first time may be confusing.  For example, if you have a RUN
command in your config.sys that accesses the comport, like
RUN=x:\path\MODE.COM COM1, then it is NOT possible for logger.exe to catch
the initial information.

Assuming the port is not accessed via config.sys, then a good way to insure
you catch the initial information is to start logger in your startup.cmd
file.  If you do not have a startup.cmd file, then create it in the root
directory of your OS/2 boot drive.  The command I use in my startup.cmd
file is:

start /c /win /min c:\sio2k\logger com1 c:\sio2k\logcom1.log

The log file, or the displayed information can tell you why you are getting
errors like "not ready" or "in use".

